wood18

These are some other changes
affecting the field, teaching, and
practice of statistics:

The discipline of “data
science“ has emerged as
a field that encompasses
elements of statistics,
computer science, and
domain-specific knowledge.

More powerful and affordable
technology options
have become widely
available.

The revised GAISE College Report takes into account the many
changes in the world of statistics education and statistical practice since 2005 and suggests a direction for the future of introductory statistics courses.

5. Use technology to explore concepts and analyze data.

Technology has changed the practice
of statistics and, hence, should
change what and how we teach.

lets students do analysis
more easily, opening up time
to focus on interpreting results
and testing conditions rather than
on computational mechanics.
Technology should aid students in
learning to think statistically and
to discover concepts, sometimes
through the use of simulation.
It should also facilitate access to
real (and possibly large) data sets,
foster active learning, and embed
assessment into course activities.
Statistics is practiced with
computers, usually with specially
designed computer software.
Students should learn to use a
statistical software package, if
possible. Calculators can provide
some limited functionality for
smaller data sets, but their use
should be supplemented with
experience reading typical output
from statistical software (e.g.,
Minitab, SPSS, R/RStudio).
Regardless of the tools used,
it is important to view the use of
technology as not just a way to
generate statistical output, but a
way to explore conceptual ideas
and enhance student learning.


carter18

This paper introduces a new RStudio addin, called "Simple Course Management System," that facilitates the exchange, grading, and real-time supervision of student work in RStudio.

In Fall 2016, Dr. Carter chose R as the software for use in a discrete mathematics course and chose to use RStudio Server Professional in the cloud, because doing so brought several benefits. The aim was to make it easy for
1. Students to submit completed assignments to the instructor;
2. Students to share work with teammates;
3. The instructor to distribute course materials to students;
4. The instructor to collect completed assignments from the students;
5. The instructor to return graded assignments to the students; and
6. The instructor to monitor student work on in-class exercises in real time.

Dr. Carter created an RStudio addin that an instructor can install into his or her RStudio Server Professional account, and it provides a graphical interface that allows the instructor to
1. Distribute a file to all students in the course;
2. Collect a completed assignment from all students in the course;
3. Return a graded assignment to all students in the course; and
4. Monitor all copies of a file being worked on by all students in the course.
Students do not need to install anything; only the instructor needs to install the addin.

Distributing Files to Students

Collecting Student Work

Providing Feedback

Returning Graded Files to Students

Live Monitoring of In-Class Work

There were negative and positive feedback about the addin from the students and instructor.


horton15

Anecdotal reports have indicated that statistics undergraduates are at a competitive disadvantage relative to undergraduate computer science (CS) degree holders for entrylevel positions. Such positions tend to have data-related skills at the core of the job descriptions. At present, many CS students tend to be able to perform computations with data more easily than their statistics equivalents.

hundreds of thousands of high school students still use outmoded
calculators for their analysis, limiting their ability to
move beyond simple calculations or undertake any sense of realisticworkflowthat
they might encounter in the realworld. This
is certainly not the technology being used by data scientists.

(1) broaden the role
of multivariable methods in our curricula; (2) develop datarelated
skills early; and (3) expand the role of simulation and
computation.

Data-Related Skills

Instructors and programs will need to stay up to
date as the preferred technologies change over time.
Instructors and institutions that provide these skills will get the students. Students with these skills will get the jobs.
We need to introduce these capacities in our first and second
courses to ensure that students have sufficient depth
by the end of their programs.

Empirical Simulation to Complement Analytic
Problem Solving

Getting students to come to grips with multidimensional
thinking, preparing them to grapple with real-world problems
and complex data, and providing them with skills in computation
are challenging things to add to our curriculum. But such
an approach would help them to tackle more sophisticated problems,
assess their models and assumptions, carry out sensitivity
analyses, and check their results.

Now we face the challenges of “Big Data” and the need
for data-related skills.


doi16

Computer technology can greatly enhance statistics education by illustrating fundamental concepts such as randomness, sampling, and variability through computer simulations and visualizations.
Studies have shown that such technological enhancements to statistics instruction signicantly improve student performance,
as measured by pretest and posttest analyses.

In these situations the instructor is left to consider building his/her own teaching tool
applet. But this is not a trivial task. This can require knowledge in Java, Javascript,
HTML, CSS, and PHP languages. The time required to learn the necessary languages can
be a suficient obstacle in keeping an instructor from creating applets.

An alternative method to create web-based teaching tool applications is provided by Shiny, a recent technology created by RStudio.

With Shiny, instructors can build a teaching tool that is interactive, dynamic, user-friendly, visually appealing, and, with similar functionality to Java/Javascript applets; the only requirement is some familiarity in R.

Overall we believe it is quite feasible for anyone with some familiarity with R to be able
to create Shiny apps. One does not need to be at the level of a master R developer. In
fact, two of the co-authors were undergraduate statistics students in our department as
we developed our collection of Shiny apps.


zieffler18

Cite this chapter as: 
Zieffler A., Garfield J., Fry E. (2018) What Is Statistics Education?. In: Ben-Zvi D., Makar K., Garfield J. (eds) International Handbook of Research in Statistics Education. Springer International Handbooks of Education. Springer, Cham

The statistics curriculum at the tertiary level continued to evolve during the late
part of the twentieth century. John Tukey’s work on data analysis (Tukey, 1962,
1977) revolutionized both the practice and teaching of statistics. This work, coupled
with increasing access to computers, was integral in moving the emphasis of many
statistics courses from mathematical theory to data analysis, opening up the field to
a broader population of students.

the GAISE report
Additionally, many statistics teachers have developed courses that meet the recommended
guidelines and have shared these implementations at professional meetings.
One country
that has worked to actively reform their school-level curriculum is New Zealand.

Recently, advances in computing, which have had a major
influence on statistical practice, have also led to changes in the classroom.

The availability of cheaper and more powerful technological tools has also
broadened the scope of statistical content that is taught at the school level.

there is also more demand for students trained in other disciplines to
understand basic ideas of data and chance and to be able to apply those concepts to
their own area of study.

Technology has had, and will probably continue to have, the greatest impact on the
teaching of statistics. Advances in technology have made the computation in statistics
courses both more accessible and more accurate. This has reduced the amount
of time statistics instructors need to spend on procedures, which allows for more
time to be focused on statistical concepts

At
the primary and secondary levels, teachers, many of whom have never studied statistics,
need to be prepared to teach the expanded statistical content now included in
the curriculum. Even mathematics teachers, who generally have some statistics
training in their background, will need additional preparation and professional
development beyond their mathematical training. This might include development
of their statistical content knowledge and instruction on the use of appropriate tools
and technology, as well as on educationally recommended pedagogical methods for
teaching statistics

Technology
will continue to transform the statistics curriculum and statistical learning environment,
and statistics educators must be willing to adopt promising pedagogical and
curricular innovation. This means that researchers need to continue to study these
innovations, paying particular attention to the mechanisms and supports underlying
successful classroom implementation.



gould14

Cite this chapter as: 
Gould R., Çetinkaya-Rundel M. (2014) Teaching Statistical Thinking in the Data Deluge. In: Wassong T., Frischemeier D., Fischer P., Hochmuth R., Bender P. (eds) Mit Werkzeugen Mathematik und Stochastik lernen – Using Tools for Learning Mathematics and Statistics. Springer Spektrum, Wiesbaden 


chance06

Chance, B. & Rossman, A. (2006). Using Simulation to Teach and Learn Statistics. In
A. Rossman & B. Chance (Eds.), Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference
on Teaching Statistics. [CD-ROM]. Voorburg, The Netherlands: International Statistical
Institute.



Chance, B., Ben-Zvi, D., Garfield, J., & Medina, E. (2007). The Role of Technology in Improving Student Learning of Statistics. Technology Innovations in Statistics Education, 1(1). Retrieved from https://escholarship.org/uc/item/8sd2t4rr




Harraway, J. A. (2012). Learning Statistics Using Motivational Videos, Real Data and Free Software. Technology Innovations in Statistics Education, 6(1). Retrieved from https://escholarship.org/uc/item/1fn7k2x3





Finzer, W. (2013). The Data Science Education Dilemma. Technology Innovations in Statistics Education, 7(2). Retrieved from https://escholarship.org/uc/item/7gv0q9dc

The challenge then is to figure out how to change educational systems so that students
emerge from their schooling with data science skills and conceptual understanding needed
to participate fully in society as citizens and workers.

A huge reservoir of data is backing up, with untapped discoveries within.
The people who know how to work with data are in short supply. These people are data
scientists. Future data scientists are in elementary school today, but unless the K–12
school curriculum changes so that data science education is a significant part of a young
person’s learning experience, many fewer data scientists than we need will emerge in the
next decades.

The four areas
considered here are inter-disciplinary use of data, software and its role in providing access
to data, goals for teaching with data that transcend subject matter content, and research
that needs to done to improve curriculum development.

A prerequisite to meaningful implementation of “data across the curriculum” is agreement
on a progression of encounters with data science concepts and skills.

It is not possible to have
meaningful learning experiences
in data science without frequent
use of the technologies that have
bro u g h t a b o u t t h e d a t a
revolution.

Statistics itself is rapidly changing under the influence of the data revolution (Friedman,
2001). Inevitably, statistics education lags behind. As Cobb (2007) has argued, statistics
courses are mired in teaching techniques developed by pre-computer-era statisticians to
circumvent their lack of computational power.

But the advocacy role will require statistics educators to step
outside their comfortable disciplinary silo and reach out to educators in other science and
math disciplines to understand how data science can be integrated into their curricula.


Cite this chapter as: 
Gould R., Peng R.D., Kreuter F., Pruim R., Witmer J., Cobb G.W. (2018) Challenge to the Established Curriculum: A Collection of Reflections. In: Ben-Zvi D., Makar K., Garfield J. (eds) International Handbook of Research in Statistics Education. Springer International Handbooks of Education. Springer, Cham 


Moore, D. S. (1997). New pedagogy and new content: The case of statistics. International
Statistical Review, 65(2), 123–165.

American Statistical Association. (2016). Guidelines for assessment and instruction in statistics
education: College report. Alexandria, VA: Author. Retrieved from http://www.amstat.org/
education/gaise/

Vere-Jones, D. (1995). The coming of age of statistical education. International Statistical Review,
63(1), 3–23.

Pfannkuch, M., Forbes, S., Harraway, J., Budgett, S., & Wild, C. (2013). “Bootstrapping” students’
understanding of statistical inference. Summary research report for the Teaching and
Learning Research Initiative. Retrieved from https://www.tlri.org.nz/sites/default/files/projects/
9295_summary%20report_0.pdf.

Wild, C. J., Pfannkuch, M., Regan, M., & Horton, N. J. (2011). Towards more accessible conceptions
of statistical inference. Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series A (Statistics in
Society), 174(2), 247–295.
Wild, C. J., Pfannkuch, M., Regan, M., & Parsonage, R. (2017). Accessible conceptions of statistical
inference: Pulling ourselves up by the bootstraps. International Statistical Review, 85(1),
84–107.

Schuyten, G., & Ottaviani, M. (2006). Fifteen years of IASE: Mission and instruments. In
A. Rossman & B. Chance (Eds.), Working cooperatively in statistics education: Proceedings
of the 7th International Conference on Teaching Statistics, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil [CD-ROM].
Voorburg, The Netherlands: International Association for Statistical Education and International
Statistical Institute.

Utts, J. (2015). The many facets of statistics education: 175 years of common themes. The
American Statistician, 69(2), 100–107.

Garfield, J. (Ed.). (2005). Innovations in teaching statistics. Washington, DC: Mathematics
Association of America.

Dietz, E. J., Gabrosek, J., Notz, W., & Short, T. H. (2013). Celebrating 20 years of the Journal of
Statistics Education. Journal of Statistics Education, 21(2). Retrieved from http://www.amstat.
org/publications/jse/v21n2/editor_reflections.pdf.

Garfield, J., delMas, R., & Zieffler, A. (2012). Developing statistical modelers and thinkers in an
introductory, tertiary-level statistics course. ZDM: The International Journal on Mathematics
Education, 44(7), 883–898.

Schau, C., Stevens, J., Dauphinee, T., & Del Vecchio, A. (1995). The development and validation
of the Survey of Attitudes Toward Statistics. Educational & Psychological Measurement,
55(5), 868–876.

Gal, I., & Ginsburg, L. (1994). The role of beliefs and attitudes in learning statistics: Towards
an assessment framework. Journal of Statistics Education, 2(2). Retrieved from http://www.
amstat.org/publications/jse/v2n2/gal.html.

Peng, R. (2015). The reproducibility crisis in science: A statistical counterattack. Significance,
12(3), 30–32.

Wasserstein, R. L., & Lazar, N. A. (2016). The ASA’s statement on p-values: Context, process, and
purpose. The American Statistician, 70(2), 129–133.

Biehler, R., Ben-Zvi, D., Bakker, A., & Makar, K. (2013). Technology for enhancing statistical reasoning
at the school level. In M. A. Clements, A. Bishop, C. Keitel, J. Kilpatrick, & F. Leung
(Eds.), Third international handbook of mathematics education (pp. 643–690). New York:
Springer.

Done

Consortium for the Advancement of Undergraduate Statistics Education. (2017, May 23). CAUSE.
Retrieved from https://www.causeweb.org/.

International Association for Statistical Education. (2017a, May 23). International statistical literacy
project. Retrieved from http://iase-web.org/islp/.
International Association for Statistical Education. (2017b, May 23). Recent doctoral dissertations
in statistics education. Retrieved from http://iase-web.org/Publications.php?p=Dissertations.

American Statistical Association. (2017b, May 23). STatistics Education Web (STEW). Retrieved
from http://www.amstat.org/ASA/Education/STEW/home.aspx.
American Statistical Association. (2017c, May 23). Welcome to stats 101: A resource for teaching
introductory statistics. Retrieved from http://community.amstat.org/stats101/home.

Winquist, J., & Carlson, K. (2014). Flipped statistics class results: Better performance than lecture
over one year later. Journal of Statistics Education, 22(3). Retrieved from http://www.amstat.
org/publications/jse/v22n3/winquist.pdf.

SRTL. (2017). Research forums. International collaboration for research on statistical reasoning,
thinking and literacy [website]. Retrieved from srtl.info.

Wilson, S. (2013). The flipped class: A method to address the challenges of an undergraduate statistics
course. Teaching of Psychology, 40(3), 193–199.

Reston, E., & Jala, L. L. (2014). Sustaining teachers’ capacity for teaching statistical inference
through reflective practice. In K. Makar, B. de Sousa, & R. Gould (Eds.), Sustainability in
statistics education. Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference on Teaching Statistics
(ICOTS9, July, 2014), Flagstaff, AZ, USA. Voorburg, The Netherlands: International Statistical
Institute. Retrieved from http://icots.info/9/proceedings/pdfs/ICOTS9_1D4_RESTON.pdf